## Call Stack & Memory Heap

#### call stack. (used for function invocation (call). first in, last out)
has limit. keep track of the executing code.

[Understanding the JavaScript call stack](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/understanding-the-javascript-call-stack-861e41ae61d4/)
 
*stack overflow*. recursive function (a function that calls itself) without an exit point.

#### memory Heap
has limit. memory allocation. store data.


Usually simple variables can be stored on the stack and complex data structures stored in memory heap. It depends on the engine implementation.

Whatever is on top of the call stack is where javascript is running.

##### garbage collector

- **mark** and **sweep** algorithm.

clear memory that do not have any reference or do not point to anything. 

*memory leak*

reach maximum size.

- global variables
- event listeners
- setInterval
- ...

## Single Threaded.
Only one set of instruction is executed at a time. only one call stack.

## JavaScript Runtime
The Web API comes with browsers, all of them have their JavaScript Engine implementation and all of them have a Javascript Runtime that provide a Web API(*http request. listen dom event. delay execution...*). perform these operations in the background. asynchronous

#### Event Loop
check if the Call Stack is empty or the Callback Queue has something returned from Web API.

#### Callback Queue
a place for finished Web API operations. waiting for the call stack to be empty and event loop to transfer.

##### Microtask and Macrotask
```javascript
while (eventLoop.waitForTask()) {
  const taskQueue = eventLoop.selectTaskQueue()
  if (taskQueue.hasNextTask()) {
    taskQueue.processNextTask()
  }
  const microtaskQueue = eventLoop.microTaskQueue
  while (microtaskQueue.hasNextMicrotask()) {
    microtaskQueue.processNextMicrotask()
  }
}
```
> .1) takes the contents of the input file, 2) wraps it in a function, 3) associates that function as an event handler that is associated with the “start” or “launch” event of the program; 4) performs other initialization, 5) emits the program start event; 6) the event gets added to the event queue; 7) the Javascript engine pulls that event off the queue and executes the registered handler, and then (finally) 8) our program runs! — **“Asynchronous Programming in Javascript CSCI 5828: Foundations of Software Engineering Lectures 18–10/20/2016” by Kenneth M. Anderson**

So we see the script running is the first macrotask queued.

**The important points are:**
- Tasks are taken from the Task Queue.
- Task from the Task Queue is a Macrotask != a Microtask.
- Microtasks are processed when the current task ends and the microtask queue is cleared before the next macrotask cycle.
- Microtasks can enqueue other microtasks. All are executed before the next task inline.
- UI rendering is run after all microtasks execution.

[Microtask and Macrotask: A Hands-on Approach](https://blog.bitsrc.io/microtask-and-macrotask-a-hands-on-approach-5d77050e2168)

[Difference between microtask and macrotask within an event loop context](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/25915634/difference-between-microtask-and-macrotask-within-an-event-loop-context)

[Jake Archibald: In The Loop - JSConf.Asia 2018](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cCOL7MC4Pl0)