## Scope Chain
Defines the accessibility of variables and functions in the code.

 static scope(lexical scope). javascript compiler looks through the code and attaches all these scope chains before it even runs the code.

- global scope. out most scope.
- local scope. local to a function.

## function scope vs block scope
function vs curly brackets.

`let` & `const` (block scope)

If variable is declared at global scope. may cause some issues: namespace pollution and collision. memory leak.

## IIFE. Immediatelt Invoked Function Expression.
```javascript
(function(){...})()
```
prevent global namespace pollution. create one new execution context, one isolated variable scope. minimize the amount of data that we place on the global execution context.

## `this`
`this` is the object that the **function** is a property of.  (who called me ?)

With `this`, normal functions are <u>dynamic scoped</u>. arrow functions are <u>lexical scoped</u>.

#### two main benefits.
- gives methods access to their object.
- execute same code for multiple objects.

#### `this` bind
- ES6 arrow function. (lexically scoped `this`)
- `bind` method.
- `var self = this`

## call(). apply(). bind().
borrow function.


### `bind`
return new function with a assigned context and extra parameters.

##### function currying
the process of taking a function with multiple arguments and returning a series of functions that take one argument and eventually resolve to a value.


### `call`
underneath the hood all function use `call` when invoking function.

pass parameters one by one.


### `apply`
pass parameters as Array.



## Context vs Scope

### Context
more about object-based.
how the function is invoked. what's the value of `this` keyword.

### Scope
more about function-based. what is the variable access of a function.
variable environment.