## 	Functional Programming
Separation of concern. separate data and functions.

functions operate on well-defined data structures rather than actually belonging to that data structure, like object.

### Pure Functions
- **immutable**. cannot modify anything outside of itself (no side effects)， and avoid shared state.
- same input --> same output (Idempotence)

*referential transparency*

**minimize side effects**

core: build programs that are built with a bunch of very small, very reusable, predictable pure functions.

a perfect function:
- one task
- return statement
- pure
- no shared state
- immutable state
- composable
- predictable

### Imperative vs Declarative
how to do vs what to do.

### Immutability
memory issue: stractural sharing.

### Currying
A sequence of functions each with a single argument.

### Partial Application
producing a function with a smaller number parameters. `bind`. expects all parameters.

### Memoization ~ Caching
A specific form of caching the return value of a function.


### Compose & pipe
any sort of data transformation that we do should be obvious. easy to move pieces around to get the desired output based on user's specific requirements. components(functions) can be selected an assembled in various combinations.

### Arity
A number of arguments a function takes.

the fewer arguments, the more flexible. 

---

```javascript
const compose = (f, g) => (...args) => f(g(...args))

['func components'].reduce(compose)
```

### Reviewing FP
a function without return statement, is just a procedure.

all about making code predictable, and good at ONE TO ONE data transformations.

HOF. pieces. pure